In the last lecture, we added the logic to put data onto our indexedDB database, so into the posts-store.
Now that is great but of course, it's more useful if we can also fetch it from there,
so let's make sure to do this now.
Now fetching should happen in the feed.js file, at least for our cache then network strategy which
we're using here,
we used it with the cache API before but as I mentioned earlier in this module, you can use the same
strategies with indexedDB.
So if you had a strategy where you also fetch in the service worker, like for example our cache with
network fallback where we first look into the cache, you could also of course start by looking into
indexedDB.
Now as I just said, this is not what we'll do though,
so I will simply go to feed.js to follow with my strategy. Now in feed.js, I again need to
set up this database promise first to get access to the database. So I can copy the code from the service
worker
but you probably already see that we would duplicate a lot of code now. We would duplicate this variable
here
and we would have to write a method for getting data
and if we decide to ever get data in the service worker, we had to write that get data method there
too.
So maybe we add a new script file which will name utility.js
or you could name it indexedDB or DB or whatever you like. In that new file, I'll
first of all add the code here to set up this dbPromise which opens the database and creates a new
object store when needed.
I'll then create a new method which I'll name writeData because I want to have a generic utility which
I can use from anywhere in the application.
writeData should in the end simply encapsulate that code we have in our fetch listener right now,
so basically this code here where we access the promise and then write something into it, that goes into
writeData.
Of course I want to create a reusable method so I don't want to hardcode the store we have to access
in there
and of course I need to be able to get the data,
so I want to get information about the store, I'll name that st and about the data which should be stored.
So I'll remove the key access because I expect to get the finished data I should enter in this function
here already and I'll replace the posts string here with st so that we can simply call that function.
Now with that outsourced, let's already go back to the service worker and let's use our new file. We have to import
it just as we had to import IDB, let we bring this down so that it's easy to see.
So I'll import utility, of course import it after the IDB import because we depend on that
and with that imported, I can get rid of dbPromise here because I do have it set up in the utility.js
file
and I also can simply use writeData here now.
So instead of accessing dbPromise here, I can simply call writeData, pass the store which I want to
access, posts and the data I want to write, data and then access the key here.
So now we have a leaner service worker and we can reuse that in other parts of the application
too.
Now one important thing in that utility.js file is we of course have to return dbPromise here
in writeData,
otherwise we execute it but we never get back the response of that.
So make sure to return dbPromise
and with that, we finish this, we outsourced everything into the utility file,
we can now use this from the normal Javascript in the service worker.
Let's now move on to finally reading data.